[MUSIC]
>> Brian Holt: We have this
function called a cross out.
If I have an array of a bar of 1,
2, 3, right.
It's basic code, I'm going to reverse
the array and add it to itself, so
it's going to end up being something
like 1 plus 3, which is gonna be 4.
4, 4, well good job Brian you got it.
I didn't mean to do that but
basically it's going to add 1 to 3 and
2 to 2 ,and 3 to 1, right?
So it's just going to do
that very useless algorithm.
But let's talk about what
the big old that would be.
>> Brian Holt: Well for
everything that we get into input for
whatever input length is because
it input can be an array.
It's gonna touch everything once.
And we're doing other
things that you could add.
You could figure out the coefficients by
adding how many instructions are we doing
per loop right?
But we don't care right?
This is about broad strokes now.
>> Brian Holt: [COUGH] Excuse me.
So, the broad stroke here is that we're
gonna do one loop over everything,
which basically says
that it's gonna be end.
So, for every length,
we're gonna go over it once.
So, you can say here that the big O is M,
because we go over thing once,
it makes some sense, right?
Pretty simple so far.
So let's talk about Find, right,
so we have needle in a haystack.
Haystack would be an array and needle
would be whatever you're looking for
in the array.
So here, we're gonna loop over it.
And if haystack equals needle
then we're gonna return true.
Pretty simple algorithm.
So, what would the big O be here?
Well, potentially if it's the first,
if the needle is the first thing in the
haystack, it could just be instant return.
However, we're still looking
at broad strokes here, and
this would be like half or a quarter n.
But were sucked in with those unimportant
details, we're still gonna say this is n,
in other words we're still most
looking at the worst case scenario and
the worst case scenario it
would be the last thing right.
We'd have to go through the entire array.
So this is still O(n).
So even if you're short circuiting
we'll still have the potential to
loop over everything and
that's when I say it's a big O(n).
Okay, so let's look at this
one right here make tuples or
topples, depending on who
you ask how to say that.
I generally say topples because that's
what I hear everyone else saying.
And the basic idea here is, let's see.
>> Brian Holt: If I have something like.
>> Brian Holt: 1,2, 3, if I have an array
like that, basically I'm gonna go and
I'm gonna make every combination
possible of array of arrays, right.
So I'm gonna do 1,2.
I'm gonna do 1,3 and then,
I'm gonna do 2,1.
Actually, I think it'll even do like 2,2,
right, whatever.
Something to that effect though.
>> Brian Holt: So
it's going to loop over everything and
then create these these topples for
us right.
So the question here is
what is the big O of this?
Well we have one loop and
then inside of the loop, so
basically we go to one right in this
array and then inside of that loop,
we're going to loop over everything
again inside of that loop, so
we're gonna do one on our outer loop and
then the inner loop's gonna do 1,2,3.
Then we're gonna do 2, and
then on the inner loop we're
gonna do 1,2,3 again, right?
So now you have to be thinking about like,
okay,
well how many times am I
going to be looping over it?
Well, the answer is,
since we have an outer and
we have an inner loop which means
that we're gonna be n squared.
And I hope you've seen the trick, there's
nothing more of the trick than this,
you just look for loops.
So every time you see for a while nested
or something like that, chances are that's
gonna be almost unexceptionally that's
gonna be your answer right there.
So you just look for nested loops,
if I have a for loop within a for
loop within a for loop, it's going to be
end cubed right, and so on and so forth.
Also if you have a end cubed algorithm,
you're probably doing something wrong.
I'm just throwing that out there.
There's very rare occasions
where that's appropriate.
That's basically it right here.
We're just looking for nested loops,
because that's 95% of time what's going to
add the most time to what you're doing.
And something else worth mentioning.
So if you have no loops and
if you just do something in return
that's had to be constant time.
Because or 01, we always hear
just said constant time, so and
I'll be saying that ad
nauseum as we go forward so.
That's what I mean.
This could means there's
no loops in your code.
We're also gonna see o ( log n),
when we start getting to recursion and
recursive algorithms.
And basically, if you're playing recursion
a recursive strategy any sort of like
divide and conquer, which again we'll
talk about here in a little bit.
It's just gonna be be a log n right, and
that's basically saying that as you add
more and more elements to whatever
you're doing it's going to take less and
less time per item that you're
adding to the list, right?
So if maybe the first ten take me ten and
then the next ten take me five seconds to
the next ten take me two and
a half seconds, right?
So it's a diminishing adding of time and
that's what logarithmic time means.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
to the input dimension.
So and that's going to most of
like merge sort and quick sort and
dealing with trees as well that
will see these recursive logins.
>> Speaker 2: We've got
a question on line.
>> Brian Holt: Sure.
>> Speaker 2: Do you have it or
do you want me to read it to you?
>> Brian Holt: Go ahead, you read it.
>> Speaker 2: Okay, is it fair to say that
if you had to loop over the array twice,
you could have O 2n or would that
be written still be reduced to O n?
>> Brian Holt: That's a great question.
Who asked that?
Brody?
>> Speaker 2: Brody Y.
>> Brian Holt: Brody Y, okay.
So the answer to that question is you
would be adding a coefficient, but as we
saw before with the three x squared plus
x plus one, we just dropped the three.
So that O is pretty aggressive and
sucking away all the other terms.
So we would still say that's O n,
even if you have like for loop and
then another for loop underneath and
another for loop underneath.
We're still only,
we're adding coefficients aren't actually
adding terms or exponential terms right.
But that's a great question.